Let's talk a moment about the range
function and converting it to a list.
Here are an example.
First of all, I've got a range function.
It starts at 2, it stops at 20,
and it goes up at steps of 3.
In this version I've converted
it to a list and printed it.
Let's take a look at that.
2, that's the starting one,
goes up by 3 to 5, 3 more to 8,
3 to 11, 3 to 14, 3 to 17, and
3 to 20, but it doesn't do 20.
That works as we would expect.
It takes the range and
converts it to a list and prints it.
If you don't convert it to a list,
however, you just get the phrase,
range 2 through 20 in
steps of 3 back again.
In Python 2, the range function
actually produced a list, and
they had to introduce a different function
called x range that would work like ours.
The reason had to do with using
the range function with a large range.
It would produce a list which were
just huge and use up lots of memory
Now let's take a look at integers.
We have a big integer right here.
We could mark off every
three digits with commas,
like this, but you gotta be careful
about that because Python interprets
those as three different numbers as
you can see when you print them out.
So, that's not a good idea.
Here's another caution that
Python has keywords, and
this is the list of them right here.
You don't want to use those as a variable.
Let's see what happens if you use except
which is one of
the keywords as a variable.
It gives you a syntax error.
Now what I have done when I
felt like I needed to use
one of the keywords as
a variable is I just put
an underscore after it and
that makes it different.
Let's recall a function
that we wrote previously.
Here's another copy, which I'll execute.
We defined a list New England, consisting
of the states of New England, Maine,
New Hampshire, Vermont, and
then we wrote a function that stepped
through the list printing each state.
Now what I want to do is do a little
bit more sophisticated version of that.
Here is New England redefined and
this time,
redefined each state to have a population.
That meant that each state really
is represented by a sublist.
Massachusetts and
its population is that sublist.
Connecticut and
its population is this sublist.
And so on.
So each item of the list New England.
Is a sublist consisting of the name
of the state and its population.
Now before we write our functions,
let's make sure that we understand how to
access the various parts of this list.
This is an exercise that
you can do along with me.
What is the first item of New England?
Well the first item of New England
is the one with index zero, and
that is Massachusetts and its population.
It's a sublist,
it's not just Massachusetts.
What is the second item?
Well, that's the item with index one and
that's Connecticut.
Now what is the name of the state
in the second element that
is the element of index one?
Well, we know that this
will give us the name and
then give us the sublist that consists
of Connecticut to us and its population.
If we want the name of the state,
we need the 0th element of that list,
and that's Connecticut.
If we want the population of Connecticut,
we go to the item of index one.
Let me give you a more complete
solution here that you can study.
This is for port one.
It will take the New England list and
print both its population and
state name for each item.
There's our little report.
We put population at the top of that
column, state at the top of that column.
We give the population of Massachusetts
and the state name of Massachusetts.
Now let's take a look at the function and
see how that works.
The function is for port one and
we passed state data in.
In this case we passed
the New England state data.
It will print, first of all,
the population and the state, and
we see that here.
Now, for each state item in state data,
state data is the big list
that we passed into the function,
we will print state item of one.
State item of one is going to be item one
of each one of these sublists.
And that's the population.
Then we'll print a blank.
And then we'll print state item of zero.
The state item of zero is the 0th item of
each of these lists which is the name of
the state.
That's how it works.
It's very simple and straightforward.
Now notice that since we used state
data here, we didn't use New England,
this can work on any big list
that has this general shape.
So for example, I can define mid-Atlantic
states to be this, New York and
its population, New Jersey, its
population, Pennsylvania, its population.
Let me write that out so
that it is more obvious.
We can use this function on the mid
Atlantic states, report one mid Atlantic.
And it prints the proper report for
the mid Atlantic state because it was not
written specifically for New England.
It will work on other regional
lists in the proper manner.
It is instructive to write this function
in a slightly different way, so
here it is again.
Report two.
Now what's different about this?
Well, we still print
the headings in the same way,
but this time we just use i and
we ranged from zero to
the length of the left.
Instead of stepping through each
item in the list, we do it this way.
And i of course is just an integer, 0,
1, 2, 3, 4 up to the length of the list.
And so we'll print the state data of i,
Bracket one for the population and
bracket zero for the state name.